---
layout: post
title: "This is a test"
date: 2014-04-31
---

20 years later, while a graduate student studying film semiotics in London, I watched structuralist filmmaker Hollis Frampton’s 60-minute Zorns Lemma for the first time (see www.ubu.com). The film centers on the Puritan children’s textbook the Bay State Primer, an educational tool that shares with “i-beam” an unsettling power and dubious peda- gogical merit. the Bay State Primer uses a mnemonic arrangement of startling sentences to teach the alphabet; for example, “idle fools are whipped at school” for i,“time cuts down all both great and small” for t, “Xerxes the great did die and so must you and i” for X, and so on. Frampton uses the Bay State Primer as the voiceover prologue to Zorns Lemma, which links words in alphabetical order taken from urban signage, advertising logos, and magazine display type, thereby piecing together strange little koans and tone poems: “Paddle–Quality–radio– Saint,” “Jade–Keep–lady–Madonna,”and the morbidly comforting “Nectar-of-Pain-Quick.”

<br>

Frampton finished his film in 1970, the first full year that Sesame Street was on the air. For generation X viewers who might have caught up with Zorns Lemma in the 1990s or 2000s, the result is like an extended-play Sesame Street segment as crafted by the staff of Manhattan avant-garde mecca Anthology Film Archives. What’s more extraordinary, though, is that one could lift any minute-long sequence of Zorns Lemma and drop it into an early episode of Sesame Street, and it’s possible not a single seam would show. But where Frampton’s film was cool and aggressive, resisting interpretation, Sesame Street — its exact contemporary, emerging in the same year and from the same city — was light, inviting, and built for a purpose.
The show and its production company, the not-for-profit Children’s television Workshop (later renamed Sesame Workshop), did not invent children’s educational television—my older sister would have had Captain Kangaroo and Romper Room and Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood to choose from, and many would argue for the subtextual educational merits of Looney Tunes. but for some kids, the commercials between the shows were the biggest draw. in 1966, a three-year-old girl named Sarah Morrisett would station herself in front of her family’s television
